Todo List Manager

Course: CSE 122
Author: Jaiveer Lalli
Date: 1-29-2026
TA: Yang Wu

Overview

TodoListManager is a simple command-line program that allows users to manage a personal todo list. Users can add tasks, mark tasks as completed, save and load todo lists from files, and view their current tasks.

A creative extension (controlled by the EXTENSION_FLAG) allows users to automatically sort tasks by their length, from shortest to longest.

Features

Add a todo item – Users can add a task to a specific position or to the end of the list.

Mark tasks as done – Remove a completed task from the list.

Save todo list – Save the current list of tasks to a file.

Load todo list – Load a todo list from a file, replacing the current list.

Display tasks – Prints the current list of todos with their order numbers.

Optional sorting extension – Sort tasks by length if EXTENSION_FLAG is set to true.

How to Use

Run the program in a Java-enabled environment.

You will see a menu asking for user input:

(A)dd TODO, (M)ark TODO as done, (L)oad TODOs, (S)ave TODOs, (Q)uit?


Enter the corresponding letter to perform an action.

Follow prompts for each action:

Adding tasks asks for task name and position.

Marking tasks done asks for the number of the task to remove.

Saving/loading asks for the filename.

Enter Q to quit the program.

Example
Welcome to your TODO List Manager!
What would you like to do?
(A)dd TODO, (M)ark TODO as done, (L)oad TODOs, (S)ave TODOs, (Q)uit? A
What would you like to add? Finish homework
Where in the list should it be (1-1)? (Enter for end): 
Today's TODOs:
  1: Finish homework

File Structure

TodoListManager.java – Main Java file containing all logic for the todo list.

Extension

Sorting tasks by length:
Controlled by EXTENSION_FLAG (boolean).

false → No sorting

true → Automatically sorts tasks from shortest to longest

Notes

Program uses command-line input for simplicity and classroom learning purposes.

File input/output is text-based; each line in a file represents one task.
